>> Mike North: We've come so
far using nesting, the parent selector.
We've dealt with mixins,
default arguments to mixins.
We've looked at how we can
pass a block to mixins.
The next thing we're gonna add,
it's a brand new dimension to Sass, and
that is the idea of functions.
This is another thing that
It is not present in CSS,
in anywhere near the form
where we can use it in Sass.
So this is a link you're
gonna wanna bookmark.
And I didn't, it was not
constructive to screenshot every
possible function in Sass, and
to create slides for them.
We're gonna go over ones
that I expect you to use.
But the API docs are have a great
listing that looks just like this.
Where you can see you know what
comes with the language for free.
These are relatively high
performance because they're,
this function is evaluated inside the SASS
compiler which is written in C Right?
And so unlike some of the functions we'll
deal with later that we define ourselves,
these are quite performant and you should
feel comfortable using them broadly.
And just to go through what
these are here, rgb, that's
a color generation function, and this
is something we can already do in CSS.
So, great.
Same with rgba,
it just adds an alpha channel.
Red, green and blue.
Those are functions that will just return
the value of a single
channel of that color.
Only the r value, only the g value,
only the b value.
And we'll use that later.
And then here, we can mix two colors
together with a particular weight.
And so that'd be like, 50% blue,
50% red equals purple.
Right, tons of different colors, and
let's go over a couple of
these functions in detail.
The ones that you're going to need for
the exercises you'll work on.
So here's one called adjust hue.
And we have already mentioned the use
of hue when we were doing like
the interpolation example,
where we said like let's output
the hue of green into a comment and
it was 120 degrees.
So what hue means is like
using a color wheel so
that zero degree hue is straight up so
you can see that 120 degrees which would
be sort of down and pointing to the right.
That is in the green area.
And what adjust hue does,
is it takes one color, preserves its
saturation, and its brightness, and
alters the hue by a specific angle.
So you can think of it like
rotating around the color wheel.
In this case, brightness would be going
towards the center of the circle or
away from the circle, right?
All the way in the center to white
no matter which angle you're at.
And then saturation would be a dimension
that's not represented on this
color wheel.
And we would treat the whole
space more like a cylinder or
saturation might come out of the page.
So this is actually a 100% saturation,
that's this slice of the cylinder.
So you see, here we can take 63F,
which is at 225 degrees, and
we can rotate it by 60 degrees, or
the number 60, that would be fine.
You don't have to write the number deg.
I like to, because it's very clear
to developers what's going on here.
Someone who comes across this,
if they momentarily forgot
that this is about a rotation.
Now, that's a queue like that's
what we're dealing with.
And we essentially get something
that is just a circular arc just at
a different angle.
>> Audience 1: Can you use a negative
value for the degrees?
>> Mike North: I believe you can use
a negative value.
>> Audience 1: Right.
>> Audience 2: So it always by default
goes clockwise?
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Audience 2: So if you wanted to go-
>> Mike North: Positive values
are clockwise.
>> Audience 2: So
if you wanted to go counter-clockwise,
I was going to ask, negative numbers,
theoretically, how would that work if
you wanted to go the other direction?
>> Mike North: I am blanking as to whether
a negative value would work.
I would expect it to,
otherwise it's 360 minus whatever value.
And you'll need to do that for
this solution.
Either a negative value or a 360 minus.
>> Mike North: Color functions we can
build on top of those by darkening or
lightening a color by a percent.
So what I do want you to notice
here is that in this example,
we're taking a blue and
creating a darker blue from it.
The percent is not multiplicative.
So we're taking a color and we are
subtracting 20% from its brightness value.
We are not decreasing it's
brightness value by 20%.
So if we were to start at 80 and
decrease the brightness by 20%,
we would end up at 60, not 64.
16% is 20% of 80.
So we are subtracting 20%.
So if you subtracted a 100%,
you would be a black.
I guess that example would [LAUGH] fit in
both multiplicative and additive cases.
But just keep that in mind that
its a 0 to a 100 scale and
this is subtracting or adding.
Same goes with saturation which is on
a 0 to 100 scale and add or subtract.
Saturation has to do with how much of
a color is, how much of a channel
is mixed into a particular color.
So full saturation would be
like very vivid colors, and
no saturation at all would be grey scale,
does that make sense?
You would have to talk to a designer
to get a more eloquent definition of
that term.